it's hard to think of an aspect of the
Arctic more dramatic than a storm and
they play an important part of any
training for two days our base in the
village of Qatar shook was engulfed by
one this region of Greenland is the
torus for storms these high winds have
developed over a very short period of
time and combined with low temperatures
and poor visibility make life here for
locals very hard indeed this is not a
holiday break for them this is their
home villages like kulusuk rely heavily
on aircraft and helicopters when these
are grounded the villagers give
extensive stores of critical supplies
during the winter months they have to
endure being isolated from the outside
world during storms like this I prepare
for similar isolation whilst traveling
for months on the ice caps by hauling
all my food and supplies this makes me
totally self-sufficient unlike the
isolation i'm bound to endure the storm
hits whilst on an expedition the
Greenlanders work as a community to keep
their daily life as near to normal as
possible
so despite the fact that over the last
few hours the wind has really picked up
and the temperatures have really dropped
we're planning to go out in the morning
with the local hunters to try and see
how they live their lives even in these
tough winter conditions it's amazing how
it can change from just one minute being
quite still and quite calm to being
crazily powerful winds and really really
difficult just to see a few paces ahead
the relief and exhilaration of the few
hours after a storm has blown through
and an eerie calm ensues never
diminishes the dogs just brush off the
experience as if nothing has happened in
the next episode we head out onto the
ice and I show you how we travel when
alone in the Arctic wilderness
you